The syllabus contains six sessions (A, B, C, D, E, F). Each session consists of three concrete
Java exercises, out of which at least two questions are mandatory.

(A) Basic programs using datatypes, operators, and control statements in Java.

1) Write a Java program that checks whether a given string is a palindrome or not.
Ex: MALAYALAM is palindrome.

2) Write a Java Program to find the frequency of a given character in a string. **

3) Write a Java program to multiply two given matrices. **

	(B) Object Oriented Programming Concepts: Problem on the use of constructors, inheritance,
	method overloading & overriding, polymorphism and garbage collection:

4) Write a Java program which creates a class named 'Employee' having the following
	members: Name, Age, Phone number, Address, Salary. It also has a method named 'printSalary( )' which prints the salary of the Employee. Two classes 'Officer' and 'Manager'
	inherits the 'Employee' class. The 'Officer' and 'Manager' classes have data members 'specialization' and 'department' respectively. Now, assign name, age, phone number, address
	and salary to an officer and a manager by making an object of both of these classes and
	print the same. (Exercise to understand inheritance). **

5) Write a java program to create an abstract class named Shape that contains an empty
method named numberOfSides( ). Provide three classes named Rectangle, Triangle and
Hexagon such that each one of the classes extends the class Shape. Each one of the classes contains only the method numberOfSides( ) that shows the number of sides in the given geometrical structures. (Exercise to understand polymorphism). **

6) Write a Java program to demonstrate the use of garbage collector.

	(C) Handling different types of files as well as input and output management methods:
7) Write a file handling program in Java with reader/writer.

8) Write a Java program that read from a file and write to file by handling all file related exceptions. **

9) Write a Java program that reads a line of integers, and then displays each integer, and the
sum of all the integers (Use String Tokenizer class of java.util). **

	(D) Exception handling and multi-threading applications:

10) Write a Java program that shows the usage of try, catch, throws and finally. **

11) Write a Java program that implements a multi-threaded program which has three threads.
First thread generates a random integer every 1 second. If the value is even, second
thread computes the square of the number and prints. If the value is odd the third thread
will print the value of cube of the number.

12) Write a Java program that shows thread synchronization. **

	(E) Graphics Programming:

13) Write a Java program that works as a simple calculator. Arrange Buttons for digits and
the + - * % operations properly. Add a text field to display the result. Handle any possible
exceptions like divide by zero. Use Java Swing. **

14) Write a Java program that simulates a traffic light. The program lets the user select one of
three lights: red, yellow, or green. When a radio button is selected, the light is turned on,
and only one light can be on at a time. No light is on when the program starts. **

15) Write a Java program to display all records from a table using Java Database Connectivity (JDBC).
	(F) Standard Searching and Sorting Algorithms using data structures and algorithms learned
from course Data Structures (CST 201):

16) Write a Java program for the following: **

	1) Create a doubly linked list of elements.
	2) Delete a given element from the above list.
	3) Display the contents of the list after deletion.

17) Write a Java program that implements Quick sort algorithm for sorting a list of names in
ascending order. **
18) Write a Java program that implements the binary search algorithm. 